Blackbox -- read me first file.  2013-10-03


Blackbox
========

Package blackbox-0.70.2 was released under MIT license 2013-10-03.

This is a fork of the original Blackbox CVS that is on Sourceforge:
(http://blackboxwm.sourceforge.net).  This fork is hosted on GitHub at
(http://github.com/bbidulock/blackboxwm).  What it includes is all
changes made on the official Blackbox CVS repository on branch
`blackbox-0_70_2cvs', as well as patches collected from pdl-linux,
Debian, the blackbox bug list, other GitHub forks.  It also includes
enhanced EWMH/ICCCM compliance.


Release
-------

This is the blackbox-0.70.2 package, released 2013-10-03.  This release,
and the latest version, can be obtained from the GitHub repository at
(http://github.com/bbidulock/blackboxwm), using a command such as:

    $> git clone http://github.com/bbidulock/blackboxwm.git

Please see the `NEWS' file for release notes and history of user visible
changes for the current version, and the `ChangeLog' file for a more
detailed history of implementation changes.  The `TODO' file lists
features not yet implemented and other outstanding items.  The file
`COMPLIANCE' lists the current state of EWMH/ICCCM compliance.

Please see the `INSTALL' file for installation instructions.

When working from `git(1)', please see the `README-git' file.  An
abbreviated installation procedure that works for most applications
appears below.

This release is published under the MIT license that can be found in the
file `COPYING'.


Quick Start:
------------

The quickest and easiest way to get Blackbox up and running is to run
the following commands:

    $> git clone http://github.com/bbidulock/blackboxwm.git
    $> autoreconf -fiv
    $> ./configure --prefix=/usr --mandir=/usr/share/man
    $> make V=0
    $> make DESTDIR="$pkgdir" install
    $> install -Dm644 COPYING "$pkgdir/usr/share/licenses/blackbox/COPYING"

This will configure, compile and install Blackbox the quickest.  For
those who like to spend the extra 15 seconds reading ./configure --help,
some compile time options can be turned on and off before the build.

For general information on GNU's ./configure, see the file `INSTALL'.


Configuring Blackbox:
---------------------

The next thing most users want to do after installing Blackbox is to
configure the colors, fonts, menus, etc. to their liking.  This is
covered by the files data/README, data/README.menu and
data/README.style.  These files give detailed information on how to
customize your new window manager.


Included utilities:
-------------------

Currently, the only included utilities are a program named bsetroot and
a script called bsetbg. bsetroot is a replacement for xsetroot, minus a
few options.  The difference between xsetroot and bsetroot is that
bsetroot has been coded for multiple screens (e.g. multi-headed
displays), where as the stock xsetroot is not. The bsetbg script acts as
a wrapper for most of the popular programs used to set background
pixmaps, making it possible for styles to provide a machine-independent
rootCommand.


Third-party utilities:
----------------------

With the start of the 0.60.x series Blackbox no longer handles any
keyboard shortcuts; instead it supports a communication protocol which
allows other programs to handle these and related tasks. If you'd like
to be able to use keyboard shortcuts with Blackbox, bbkeys (available at
http://bbkeys.sourceforge.net) can provide you with all the previous
functionality and more.

If you're looking for a GUI with which to configure your Blackbox menu
and/or styles, check out http://bbconf.sourceforge.net. bbconf is a QT
program that does just that, as well as providing a GUI for editing your
key bindings for the above mentioned bbkeys.


# vim: set ft=asciidoc tw=72 nocin nosi fo+=tcqlorn:

